For linear regression, we have previously
worked out two learning algorithms.
One based on gradient descent and
one based on the normal equation.
In this video,
we'll take those two algorithms and
generalize them to the case of
regularized linear regression.
Here's the optimization objective
that we came up with last time for
regularized linear regression.
This first part is our usual objective for
linear regression.
And we now have this additional
regularization term, where lambda
is our regularization parameter, and
we like to find parameters theta
that minimizes this cost function, this
regularized cost function, J of theta.
Previously, we were using
gradient descent for
the original cost function
without the regularization term.
And we had the following algorithm,
for regular linear regression, without
regularization, we would repeatedly update
the parameters theta J as follows for
J equals 0, 1, 2, up through n.
Let me take this and just write
the case for theta 0 separately.
So I'm just going to write the update for
theta 0 separately than for
the update for the parameters 1,
2, 3, and so on up to n.
And so this is,
I haven't changed anything yet, right.
This is just writing the update for theta
0 separately from the updates for theta 1,
theta 2, theta 3, up to theta n.
And the reason I want to do this
is you may remember that for
our regularized linear regression, we
penalize the parameters theta 1, theta 2,
and so on up to theta n.
But we don't penalize theta 0.
So, when we modify this algorithm for
regularized linear regression,
we're going to end up treating
theta zero slightly differently.
Concretely, if we want to
take this algorithm and
modify it to use
the regular rise objective,
all we need to do is take this term at
the bottom and modify it as follows.
We'll take this term and
add minus lambda over m times theta j.
And if you implement this,
then you have gradient descent for
trying to minimize the regularized
cost function, j of theta.
And concretely, I'm not gonna
do the calculus to prove it, but
concretely if you look at this term, this
term hat I've written in square brackets,
if you know calculus it's
possible to prove that that term
is the partial derivative
with respect to J of theta
using the new definition of J of
theta with the regularization term.
And similarly, this term up on top
which I'm drawing the cyan box,
that's still the partial derivative
respect of theta zero of J of theta.
If you look at the update for theta j,
it's possible to show
something very interesting.
Concretely, theta j gets updated
as theta j minus alpha times,
and then you have this other term
here that depends on theta J.
So if you group all the terms
together that depend on theta j,
you can show that this update can
be written equivalently as follows.
And all I did was add theta j here is,
so theta j times 1.
And this term is, right, lambda over m,
there's also an alpha here,
so you end up with alpha lambda
over m multiplied into theta j.
And this term here, 1 minus alpha times
lambda m, is a pretty interesting term.
It has a pretty interesting effect.
Concretely this term,
1 minus alpha times lambda over m,
is going to be a number that is
usually a little bit less than one,
because alpha times lambda over m is
going to be positive, and usually
if your learning rate is small and if m
is large, this is usually pretty small.
So this term here is gonna be a number
that's usually a little bit less than 1,
so think of it as a number like 0.99,
let's say.
And so
the effect of our update to theta j is,
we're going to say that theta j gets
replaced by theta j times 0.99, right?
So theta j times 0.99 has the effect of
shrinking theta j a little
bit towards zero.
So this makes theta j a bit smaller.
And more formally, this makes the square
norm of theta j a little bit smaller.
And then after that,
the second term here, that's actually
exactly the same as the original
gradient descent update that we had,
before we added all this
regularization stuff.
So, hopefully this gradient descent,
hopefully this update makes sense.
When we're using a regularized
linear regression and
what we're doing is on every iteration
we're multiplying theta j by a number
that's a little bit less then one, so its
shrinking the parameter a little bit, and
then we're performing
a similar update as before.
Of course that's just the intuition behind
what this particular update is doing.
Mathematically what it's doing
is it's exactly gradient descent
on the cost function J of theta that we
defined on the previous slide that uses
the regularization term.
Gradient descent was just one
of our two algorithms for
fitting a linear regression model.
The second algorithm was the one
based on the normal equation,
where what we did was we created
the design matrix X where
each row corresponded to
a separate training example.
And we created a vector y, so this is
a vector, that's an m dimensional vector.
And that contained the labels
from my training set.
So whereas X is an m by (n+1) dimensional
matrix, y is an m dimensional vector.
And in order to minimize the cost
function J, we found that one
way to do so
is to set theta to be equal to this.
Right, you have X transpose X,
inverse, X transpose Y.
I'm leaving room here to
fill in stuff of course.
And what this value for theta does is this
minimizes the cost function J of theta,
when we were not using regularization.
Now that we are using regularization,
if you were to derive what the minimum is,
and just to give you a sense of how to
derive the minimum, the way you derive it
is you take partial derivatives
with respect to each parameter.
Set this to zero, and
then do a bunch of math and
you can then show that it's a formula like
this that minimizes the cost function.
And concretely,
if you are using regularization,
then this formula changes as follows.
Inside this parenthesis,
you end up with a matrix like this.
0, 1, 1, 1, and so on,
1, until the bottom.
So this thing over here is a matrix
whose upper left-most entry is 0.
There are ones on the diagonals, and
then zeros everywhere else in this matrix.
Because I'm drawing this rather sloppily.
But as a example, if n = 2,
then this matrix is going to
be a three by three matrix.
More generally, this matrix is
an (n+1) by (n+1) dimensional matrix.
So if n = 2, then that matrix becomes
something that looks like this.
It would be 0, and
then 1s on the diagonals, and
then 0s on the rest of the diagonals.
And once again, I'm not going to show this
derivation, which is frankly somewhat long
and involved, but it is possible to prove
that if you are using the new definition
of J of theta, with the regularization
objective, then this new formula for
theta is the one that we give you,
the global minimum of J of theta.
So finally I want to just quickly
describe the issue of non-invertibility.
This is relatively advanced material,
so you should consider this as optional.
And feel free to skip it,
or if you listen to it and
positive it doesn't really make sense,
don't worry about it either.
But earlier when I talked about
the normal equation method,
we also had an optional video
on the non-invertibility issue.
So this is another optional part to this,
sort of an add-on to that earlier
optional video on non-invertibility.
Now, consider a setting where m,
the number of examples, is less than or
equal to n, the number of features.
If you have fewer examples than features,
than this matrix,
X transpose X will be non-invertible,
or singular.
Or the other term for
this is the matrix will be degenerate.
And if you implement this in
Octave anyway and you use the pinv
function to take the pseudo inverse,
it will kind of do the right thing, but
it's not clear that it would give you
a very good hypothesis, even though
numerically the Octave pinv function will
give you a result that kinda makes sense.
But if you were doing this
in a different language, and
if you were taking just the regular
inverse, which in Octave denoted with
the function inv, we're trying to take
the regular inverse of X transpose X.
Then in this setting,
you find that X transpose X is singular,
is non-invertible, and if you're doing
this in different program language and
using some linear algebra library to
try to take the inverse of this matrix,
it just might not work because that
matrix is non-invertible or singular.
Fortunately, regularization
also takes care of this for us.
And concretely, so long as
the regularization parameter lambda
is strictly greater than 0, it is actually
possible to prove that this matrix,
X transpose X plus lambda times this funny
matrix here, it is possible to prove
that this matrix will not be singular and
that this matrix will be invertible.
So using regularization also takes
care of any non-invertibility
issues of the X transpose
X matrix as well.
So you now know how to implement
regularized linear regression.
Using this you'll be
able to avoid overfitting
even if you have lots of features
in a relatively small training set.
And this should let you get linear
regression to work much better for
many problems.
In the next video we'll take
this regularization idea and
apply it to logistic regression.
So that you'd be able to get logistic
regression to avoid overfitting and
perform much better as well.